{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang6153{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2509;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs20 Subsection under discussion:\par
\par
\par
The S2 shell was first identified in high resolution K~I and Na~I absorption spectra by Goldberg et al. (1975) and subsequently reobserved multiple times over the next couple of years (Goldberg 1979). It is interesting to compare these line-of-sight velocities with those from the CARMA emission spectra obtained at similar spectral resolution.\par
\par
We have obtained K I 7698.98\\AA spectra using the cross-dispersed echelle spectrometers on the Harlan J. Smith 107 inch (2.7m) reflector at McDonald Observatory. With two pixels per resolution element a $R=\\lambda/\\Delta\\lambda=200,000 and a $R=500,000$ spectrum were obtained in 2007 March 25 and April 13(? SETH Is that correct), respectively. The spectra were wavelength calibrated with ThAr lamp lines and the lower resolution spectrum was checked by fitting terrestrial $O_2$ lines in the same order using wavelengths from Babcock and Herzberg (1948).  The $O_2$ lines confirmed the R=200,000 spectrum was good to $0.1\\>\{\\rm km\\>s\}^\{-1\}$. Upon cross-correlating the two spectrum we found the high resolution spectrum appeared red-shifted by  $0.6\\>\{\\rm km\\>s\}^\{-1\}$, i.e., one resolution element, for which we do not have an explanation except to note that a similar offset has been reported by Welty, Hobbs and Kulkarni (1994). We use the cross-correlation to fix the wavelength calibration of the $R=500,000$ spectrum and we adopt a systematic error of $0.1\\>\{\\rm km\\>s\}^\{-1\}$ and give value below to this significance.\par
\par
The high-res spectrum is shown in the adopted stellar centre-of-mass velocity frame \par
($V_\{rad=+20.7\\>\{\\rm km\\>s\}^\{-1\}$) in Figure XXX. The S2 feature is deep, well separated from the S1 feature, and very well represented by a simple absorption model with hyperfine splitting. We adopt the K~I $7698.9645$\\AA line parameters compiled in Morton (2003)\\footnote\{Note that this wavelength is $0.44\\>\{\\rm km\\>s\}^\{-1\}$ less that that adopted in the Goldberg studies.\} and find a heliocentric S2 absorption velocity of $+5.1\\>\{\\rm km\\>s\}^\{-1\}$  and a most probable line-of-sight turbulent velocity of $0.6\\>\{\\rm km\\>s\}^\{-1\}$. There is also slight inflection in the underlying profile at $+17.1\\>\{\\rm km\\>s\}^\{-1\}$ which may represent structure in the underlying profile or additional absorption in which case it has 1/10th the column density.  The S2 absorption minimum can be compared to those obtained by Goldberg (1979, Fig 7.) who measured values between 1975 and 1978 of  $4.2\\pm 0.2$ and $5.0\\pm 0.2 \\>\{\\rm km\\>s\}^\{-1\}$. The differences may result from changes in the underyling photospheric spectrum. Bernat et al.'s 1979 CO IR absoption observations reveal an S2 heliocentric velocity $+4.60\\pm 0.04$ \\>\{\\rm km\\>s\}^\{-1\}$ and turbulent velocities of 4 and $1\\>\{\\rm km\\>s\}^\{-1\}$ for the S1 and S2 features, respectively.\par
\par
Plez and Lambert (2002) have also estimated the size and velocity of the K~I S2 shell using $R=110,000$ resolution long slit spectra. They found a thin shell with velocity of $V_\{S2\}=18\\pm 2\\>\{\\rm km\\>s\}^\{-1\}$  with a radius of 55\\arcsec which is much larger than we sample in the CARMA spectra. The long slit spectra show several partial shells with similar velocities\par
\par
The CARMA spectra appear consistent with the IR absorption CO properties but it is clearly\par
less spatially extended that the KI shell indentified by Plez and Lambert.  It is of interest to ask whether the CARMA emission at the blue edge, that is the material coming straight at us (if the shell is uniformly expanding towards us of the emission profile is consistent with these data. The profile has a well delineated blue edge at a heliocentric velocity. The emission peak we observe ....\par
\par
\par
\par
@ARTICLE\{1948ApJ...108..167B,\par
   author = \{\{Babcock\}, H.~D. and \{Herzberg\}, L.\},\par
    title = "\{Fine Structure of the Red System of Atmospheric Oxygen Bands.\}",\par
  journal = \{\\apj\},\par
     year = 1948,\par
    month = sep,\par
   volume = 108,\par
    pages = \{167-+\},\par
      doi = \{10.1086/145062\},\par
   adsurl = \{http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1948ApJ...108..167B\},\par
  adsnote = \{Provided by the SAO/NASA Astrophysics Data System\}\par
\}\par
\par
@ARTICLE\{1979QJRAS..20..361G,\par
   author = \{\{Goldberg\}, L.\},\par
    title = "\{Some problems connected with mass loss in late-type stars\}",\par
  journal = \{\\qjras\},\par
 keywords = \{HERTZSPRUNG-RUSSELL DIAGRAM, LATE STARS, REACTION KINETICS, STELLAR MASS EJECTION, GIANT STARS, MASS FLOW RATE, STELLAR CORONAS, STELLAR EVOLUTION, STELLAR STRUCTURE, STELLAR WINDS, SUPERGIANT STARS\},\par
     year = 1979,\par
    month = dec,\par
   volume = 20,\par
    pages = \{361-382\},\par
   adsurl = \{http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1979QJRAS..20..361G\},\par
  adsnote = \{Provided by the SAO/NASA Astrophysics Data System\}\par
\}\par
\par
@ARTICLE\{1975ApJ...199..427G,\par
   author = \{\{Goldberg\}, L. and \{Ramsey\}, L. and \{Testerman\}, L. and \{Carbon\}, D.\par
\tab\},\par
    title = "\{High-resolution profiles of sodium and potassium lines in alpha Orionis\}",\par
  journal = \{\\apj\},\par
 keywords = \{D LINES, K LINES, M STARS, STELLAR ENVELOPES, STELLAR WINDS, SUPERGIANT STARS, ABSORPTION SPECTRA, ASTRONOMICAL MODELS, LATE STARS, LINE SPECTRA, POTASSIUM, STELLAR SPECTRA\},\par
     year = 1975,\par
    month = jul,\par
   volume = 199,\par
    pages = \{427-431\},\par
      doi = \{10.1086/153706\},\par
   adsurl = \{http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1975ApJ...199..427G\},\par
  adsnote = \{Provided by the SAO/NASA Astrophysics Data System\}\par
\}\par
\par
@ARTICLE\{2003ApJS..149..205M,\par
   author = \{\{Morton\}, D.~C.\},\par
    title = "\{Atomic Data for Resonance Absorption Lines. III. Wavelengths Longward of the Lyman Limit for the Elements Hydrogen to Gallium\}",\par
  journal = \{\\apjs\},\par
 keywords = \{Atomic Data, ISM: Atoms, Galaxies: Quasars: Absorption Lines, Stars: Atmospheres, Ultraviolet: General\},\par
     year = 2003,\par
    month = nov,\par
   volume = 149,\par
    pages = \{205-238\},\par
      doi = \{10.1086/377639\},\par
   adsurl = \{http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2003ApJS..149..205M\},\par
  adsnote = \{Provided by the SAO/NASA Astrophysics Data System\}\par
\}\par
@ARTICLE\{2002A&A...386.1009P,\par
   author = \{\{Plez\}, B. and \{Lambert\}, D.~L.\},\par
    title = "\{The outer atmosphere of the M-type supergiant alpha Orionis: K I 7699 \{\\AA\}emission\}",\par
  journal = \{\\aap\},\par
   eprint = \{arXiv:astro-ph/0203209\},\par
 keywords = \{stars: circumstellar matter, stars: individual: Betelgeuse, stars: supergiants, stars: winds, outflows\},\par
     year = 2002,\par
    month = may,\par
   volume = 386,\par
    pages = \{1009-1018\},\par
      doi = \{10.1051/0004-6361:20020363\},\par
   adsurl = \{http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2002A%26A...386.1009P\},\par
  adsnote = \{Provided by the SAO/NASA Astrophysics Data System\}\par
\}\par
\par
@ARTICLE\{1994ApJ...436..152W,\par
   author = \{\{Welty\}, D.~E. and \{Hobbs\}, L.~M. and \{Kulkarni\}, V.~P.\},\par
    title = "\{A high-resolution survey of interstellar NA I D1 lines\}",\par
  journal = \{\\apj\},\par
 keywords = \{DATA REDUCTION, INTERSTELLAR MATTER, SODIUM, STELLAR LUMINOSITY, STELLAR MASS, STELLAR SPECTRA, ABSORPTION SPECTRA, GAUSS EQUATION, HUBBLE SPACE TELESCOPE, HYDROGEN, SPACE OBSERVATIONS (FROM EARTH), STATISTICAL DISTRIBUTIONS\},\par
     year = 1994,\par
    month = nov,\par
   volume = 436,\par
    pages = \{152-175\},\par
      doi = \{10.1086/174889\},\par
   adsurl = \{http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1994ApJ...436..152W\},\par
  adsnote = \{Provided by the SAO/NASA Astrophysics Data System\}\par
\}\par
}
 